17/06/2020, 23:54:08

Gita is a Moksha Shastra. Its them is to realise God and hence attain freedom from maladies of the world. Gita maintains that world (our body/mind, relationships, circumstances, possessions, etc) are all transitory games being played. They come and go. Only One is real - The God - the unchanging. Gita prescribes 4 paths to attain God realization. These four paths need to be practiced all at once - synthesized -
1. Karma Yoga (path of selfless actions for benefit of others, without any hidden agenda for the self),
2. Bhakti Yoga (100% devotion and love to God. And nothing else as dear as God),
3. Gyana Yoga (Knowledge on knowing the nature of God. Discovery. Introspection. Realization),
4. Raja Yoga (Meditation and concentration on God)
When all these 4 paths are followed together, a person becomes free from the maladies and bondage of life. She becomes free, and is able to see God in everything she does, thinks, speaks,

So, to you question, a Sadhaka who is applying Gita, will not live for the self. She will do what situation of life has put her in, by following her "Swadharma" - duty of the self. She will not break out and do even 1 iota of thought or action for her selfish needs. For her authentic living is going beyond the worldly cravings of her mind, and turning those cravings towards 100% pure devotion to God.

She not only does that. But she also does daily meditation, pranayama and kriya for 4th path. She does puja and considers her God as her beloved for 2nd path. She delves deeper into Gita and other supporting scriptures and understands the true nature of God for 3rd path. And she does all her duties - daily chores at home, office works, work for her community and extended society, absolutely selflessly without any expectation in return. For her every breath she takes, every thought she thinks, every action she takes is a an offering, a gift to her dearest beloved - Her God.



30/05/2020, 10:05:41
Chapter 2 - Essence of Gita is in this chapter. Other chapters are supplements. They are explanation of what is taught here. This chapter is about knowledge of the self.
2.16 -
न असतो विद्यते भावॊ, न अभावो विद्यते सत: |
उभयो अपि  दृष्ट: अन्त: तु अनय तत्त्व दर्शिभि: || 16||

1. Suffering and joy are results of the contact of our senses with the sense objects. This cannot be prevented. Only what you can do is to withstand them with dignity and serenity.
2. Suffering born with dignity and serenity can itself give deep meaning to life. The locus of meaning is not in possessions, or work. But it is deeply ingrained on who you are.
3. Causes and Effects - All the world are effects. Causes are the material cause. Lectern has not existence without wood. The ornament does not have any existence without the gold. Things have essential (permanent) and incidental (comes and goes - borrowed) properties. Eg - Fire and the potato.

असत् की सत्ता नही है
सत् का अभाव नाही है

जीवॊ ब्रह्मैव: नापरा:

सत् चित् अानन्द
